--- 
layout: posttitle: "how to flash your bios from linux with no dos/windows or no floppy drive"description: ""category: "undefined" tags: [] --- <p>This is a simple how to that I picked from the web, I take no credit from this guide, give the credit to the guys <a href="http://www.linuxinsight.com/how-to-flash-motherboard-bios-from-linux-no-dos-windows-no-floppy-drive.html">from LinuxInsight.com</a> that wrote it!</p><br/><br/><h2>Step 1: Download FreeDOS boot disk floppy image</h2><br/><br/><p>FreeDOS, a free DOS-compatible operating system, is up to the challenge, no need for proprietary DOS versions. So, all you need is a bootable floppy disk image with FreeDOS kernel on it. We are fortunate that guys at FDOS site have prepared one suitable for us. Use the OEM Bootdisk version, the one with just kernel and command.com, because it leaves more free space on disk for the flash utility and new BIOS image. You can also find a local copy of this image attached at the end of this article. After you download the image, you need to decompress it. In other words:</p><br/><br/><pre class="brush: bash"><br/>wget http://www.fdos.org/bootdisks/autogen/FDOEM.144.gz<br/>gunzip FDOEM.144.gz<br/></pre><br/><br/><h2>Step 2: Copy your BIOS flash utility and new BIOS image to the mounted floppy disk image</h2><br/><br/><p>Requirement for this step is that you have support for the vfat and loop file systems in the kernel. Or you can have those features compiled as modules. In the latter case, load the modules before the next step, like this.</p><br/><br/><pre class="brush: html"><br/>modprobe vfat<br/>modprobe loop<br/></pre><br/><br/><p>Consult /proc/fileystems to see if you have the needed file systems supported. If you do, you should be able to "loop mount" the floppy disk image to some temporary path:</p><br/><br/><pre class="brush: html"><br/>mkdir /tmp/floppy<br/>mount -t vfat -o loop FDOEM.144 /tmp/floppy<br/></pre><br/><br/><p>If the mount went without errors, copy BIOS flash utility and new BIOS image to the mounted floppy disk image. You'll probably have to unzip the archive you downloaded from your motherboard vendor site, to get to those two files. Here's just an example for a random motherboard (in your case, files will have different names, of course):</p><br/><br/><pre class="brush: html"><br/>unzip 775Dual-VSTA(2.60).zip<br/>Archive: 775Dual-VSTA(2.60).zip<br/>inflating: 75DVSTA2.60<br/>inflating: ASRflash.exe<br/>cp 75DVSTA2.60 ASRflash.exe /tmp/floppy<br/></pre><br/><br/><p>Doublecheck that everything went OK, that those two files weren't too big for the floppy:</p><br/><br/><pre class="brush: html"><br/>Filesystem 1K-blocks Used Available Use% Mounted on<br/>/tmp/FDOEM.144<br/>1424 990 434 70% /tmp/floppy<br/></pre><br/><br/><p>Finally, unmount the floppy disk image:</p><br/><br/><pre class="brush: html"><br/>umount /tmp/floppy<br/></pre><br/><br/><h2>Step 3: Burn a bootable CD which will emulate floppy device for us</h2><br/><br/><p><br/>Next step is to burn the floppy image to a CD/DVD-RW media, but in a way that it can be booted afterwards. First we need to make a bootable CD image, and then burn it. Notice that on some modern distributions, cdrecord is renamed to wodim, and mkisofs to genisoimage, but the parameters below should be the same.</p><br/><br/><pre class="brush: html"><br/>mkisofs -o bootcd.iso -b FDOEM.144 FDOEM.144<br/>cdrecord -v bootcd.iso<br/></pre><br/><br/><h2>Step 4: Reboot, flash, reboot, enjoy your new BIOS</h2><br/><br/><p>Finally reboot your machine, make sure that your CD drive is first in the boot sequence, and then run your BIOS upgrade procedure when the CD boots.</p><br/><br/><p>WARNING: Flashing motherboard BIOS is a dangerous activity that can render your motherboard inoperable! While the author of this article has successfully run this procedure many times, your mileage may vary. Be careful!</p>