--- 
layout: posttitle: "demonstration against microsoft OOXML wednesday 9 april @ 12:00 oslo, norway"description: ""category: "undefined" tags: [] --- <p>Public letter from Benjamin Henrion:</p><br/><p>Dear signatory of the <b>NO</b> OOXML petition,</p><br/><br/><p>Steve Pepper, the former Chairman of the Norwegian committee responsible<br/>for deciding the Norwegian vote on OOXML, is calling for a demonstration<br/>to take place outside the building where SC34, the ISO committee that<br/>has been landed with OOXML, is holding its spring plenary.</p><br/><br/><p>The demonstration will take place outside Håndverkeren, Rosenkrantzgate<br/>7, Oslo, Norway, on Wednesday April 9 at 12.00.</p><br/><br/><p>Among the slogans are:</p><br/><br/>* No to ISO approval of OOXML!<br/><br/>* Defend the integrity of ISO!<br/><br/>* Microsoft: Support ODF!<br/><br/>* Ecma: Withdraw OOXML<br/><br/>* Norway must say no to OOXML!<br/><br/><br/><p>Steve Pepper is supported by the majority of the Norwegian technical<br/>committee who were against approving OOXML, but who were overruled by<br/>the bureaucracy at Standard Norway.</p><br/><br/><p>"I call on all those opposed to ISO's approval of OOXML to join this<br/>demonstration", says Steve Pepper. "Standard Norway defends its<br/>scandalous act by pointing to 37 identical letters that were formulated<br/>by Microsoft and sent to Standard Norway by Microsoft's partners and<br/>customers during the open hearing."</p><br/><br/><p>"If they want numbers, we can give them numbers. Join me on the street<br/>and show your disapproval. Please pass this message on around the globe.<br/>Let's use *our* technology for everything it is worth."</p><br/>