--- 
layout: posttitle: "Gnome 2.4 is released!"description: ""category: "undefined" tags: [] --- GNOME 2.24 is the latest version of the GNOME Desktop: a popular, multi-platform desktop environment for your computer. GNOME's focus is ease of use, stability, and first class internationalisation and accessibility support. GNOME is Free and Open Source Software and provides all of the common tools computer users expect of a modern computing environment, such as e-mail, groupware, web browsing, file management, multimedia and games. Furthermore, GNOME provides a flexible and powerful platform for software developers, both on the desktop and in mobile applications.<br /><br/><br /><br/><h2>What is new in this release?</h2><br/><ul><br/><li>Empathy - Gnomes own IM-client that supports Jabber, Google Talk and MSN Messenger and more. Empathy also have support for voip and video calls over SIP or XMPP protocols.</li><br/><li>Ekiga 3.0 - A tool for voip and video calls over the SIP protocol. The new feature in this edition is support for accelerated and fullscreen video, better support for video codecs and many SIP related improvements.</li><br/><li>The file manager Nautilus has finally got support for the view mode; by icon, list and compact list. Nautilus can now offer a tab based interface like Firefox and Opera.</li><br/><li>Deskbar - an applet for search, can also be used as a calculator, in addition to function as a search bar for Google and Wikipedia.</li><br/><li>The tool for screen settings is apporved with support for Randr 1.2. Randr is short for <i>Rezise and Rotate</i> and gives you more control over your monitor.</li><br/><li>The Totem media player got support for several DVB-tuners, better support for remotes without configuration through LIRC, better support for subtitles and support for high res YouTube videos.</li><br/><li>And much more...</li><br/></ul><br/><h2>Gnome Mobile</h2><br/>GNOME 2.24 is the first release of the GNOME Mobile development platform. GNOME Mobile brings standard desktop components together to provide a core platform on which distributors and handheld manufacturers can build rich programming environments.<br /><br/><br /><br/><a href="http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/2.24/">Click here</a> to read the full release note. <a href="http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/2.24/#rninstallation">Go here if you want to install it right away!</a>