--- 
layout: posttitle: "Mark Shuttleworth introduces the newest Ubuntu - Karmic Koala"description: ""category: "undefined" tags: [] --- From the press release:<br/><br/><blockquote>
 <span class="bqstart">&#8220;</span>

<p>Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce the *Karmic Koala*, the<br/>newest member of our alliterative menagerie.</p><br/><br/><p>When you are looking for inspiration beyond the looming Jaunty feature<br/>freeze, I hope you'll think of the Koala, our official mascot for Ubuntu<br/>9.10. And if you'll bear with me for a minute I'll set the scene for<br/>what we hope to achieve in that time.</p><br/><br/><h2>Server</h2><br/><br/><p>A good Koala knows how to see the wood for the trees, even when her head<br/>is in the clouds. Ubuntu aims to keep free software at the forefront of<br/>cloud computing by embracing the API's of Amazon EC2, and making it easy<br/>for anybody to setup their own cloud using entirely open tools. We're<br/>currently in beta with official Ubuntu base AMI's for use on Amazon EC2.<br/>During the Karmic cycle we want to make it easy to deploy applications<br/>into the cloud, with ready-to-run appliances or by quickly assembling a<br/>custom image. Ubuntu-vmbuilder makes it easy to create a custom AMI<br/>today, but a portfolio of standard image profiles will allow easier<br/>collaboration between people doing similar things on EC2. Wouldn't it be<br/>apt for Ubuntu to make the Amazon jungle as easy to navigate as, say, APT?</p><br/><br/><p>What if you want to build an EC2-style cloud of your own? Of all the<br/>trees in the wood, a Koala's favourite leaf is Eucalyptus. The<br/>Eucalyptus project, from UCSB, enables you to create an EC2-style cloud<br/>in your own data center, on your own hardware. It's no coincidence that<br/>Eucalyptus has just been uploaded to universe and will be part of Jaunty<br/>- during the Karmic cycle we expect to make those clouds dance, with<br/>dynamically growing and shrinking resource allocations depending on your<br/>needs. A savvy Koala knows that the best way to conserve energy is to go<br/>to sleep, and these days even servers can suspend and resume, so imagine<br/>if we could make it possible to build a cloud computing facility that<br/>drops its energy use virtually to zero by napping in the midday heat,<br/>and waking up when there's work to be done. No need to drink at the<br/>energy fountain when there's nothing going on. If we get all of this<br/>right, our Koala will help take the edge off the bear market.</p><br/><br/><p>If that sounds rather open and nebulous, then we've hit the sweet spot<br/>for cloud computing futurology. Let me invite you to join the server<br/>team at UDS in Barcelona, when they'll be defining the exact set of<br/>features to ship in October.</p><br/><br/><h2>Desktop</h2><br/><br/><p>First impressions count. We're eagerly following the development of<br/>kernel mode setting, which promises a smooth and flicker-free startup.<br/>We'll consider options like Red Hat's Plymouth, for graphical boot on<br/>all the cards that support it. We made a splash years ago with Usplash,<br/>but it's time to move to something newer and shinier. So the good news<br/>is, boot will be beautiful. The bad news is, you won't have long to<br/>appreciate it! It only takes 35 days to make a whole Koala, so we think<br/>it should be possible to bring up a stylish desktop much faster. The<br/>goal for Jaunty on a netbook is 25 seconds, so let's see how much faster<br/>we can get you all the way to a Koala desktop. We're also hoping to<br/>deliver a new login experience that complements the graphical boot, and<br/>works well for small groups as well as very large installations.</p><br/><br/><p>For those of you who can relate to Mini Me, or already have a Dell Mini,<br/>the Ubuntu Netbook Edition will be updated to include all the latest<br/>technology from Moblin, and tuned to work even better on screens that<br/>are vertically challenged. With millions of Linux netbooks out there, we<br/>have been learning and adapting usability to make the Koala cuddlier<br/>than ever. We also want to ensure that the Netbook Remix installs easily<br/>and works brilliantly on all the latest netbook hardware, so consider<br/>this a call for testing Ubuntu 9.04 if you're the proud owner of one of<br/>these dainty items.</p><br/><br/><p>The desktop will have a designer's fingerprints all over it - we're now<br/>beginning the serious push to a new look. Brown has served us well but<br/>the Koala is considering other options. Come to UDS for a preview of the<br/>whole new look.</p><br/>  <span class="bqend">&#8220;</span>
</blockquote><br/>The full press release can be <a href="https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-February/000536.html">read here</a>.<br/><br/>We just can't wait! ;)