--- 
layout: posttitle: "How to highlight search parameters from Search engines with javascript and prototype.js"description: ""category: "undefined" tags: [] --- I needed some code to help visitors on one of our sites at Aller Internett, to be able to spot the content where the search parameters where mentioned. After some searching and tutorial scavenging, I came up with this script. Add it to the bottom of you page for best practice.<br/><h2>Step one: Define searchterms var</h2><br/>First, we define the searchterm var:<br/><pre class="brush: javascript"><br/><br/>  var searchTerms=null;<br/></pre><br/><h2>Step two: parseReferrer function</h2><br/>Now we want to create a function that parses the search engines query string:<br/><pre class="brush: javascript">  <br/> function parseReferrer(term) {<br/>   var ref = document.referrer.split('?');<br/>    var parms = ref[1].split('&');<br/>   for (var i=0; i &lt; parms.length; i++) {<br/>      var pos = parms[i].indexOf('=');<br/>     if (pos > 0) {<br/>       if(term == parms[i].substring(0,pos))<br/>          searchTerms  = parms[i].substring(pos+1);<br/>      }<br/>    }<br/>  } <br/></pre><br/><h2>Step three: locateSearchTerms function</h2><br/>We need a function that kickstarts the higlight function. We add a loop if the searchterms var contains more than one parameter:<br/><pre class="brush: javascript"><br/><br/>  function locateSearchTerms(){<br/>    terms = searchTerms;<br/>   if (terms.indexOf('+') > -1){<br/>      var parms = terms.split('+'); <br/>     for (var i=0; i &lt; parms.length; i++) {<br/>        highlightSearchTerms(parms[i]);<br/>      }   <br/>   }<br/>    else{<br/>        highlightSearchTerms(terms);      <br/>   }<br/>  }<br/></pre><br/><h2>Step four: highlightSearchTerms function</h2><br/>And now, the function that does the magic. Basically, it locates every string that matches and wraps it with a span tag. It could be simplified, but it works (IMPORTANT: remember to make a css class named highlight with the wanted css for the higlights):<br/><pre class="brush: javascript"><br/>  function highlightSearchTerms(sword) {<br/>   $$('body').map(Element.extend).first().descendants().each(function (el) {<br/>      if (el.nodeType == Node.ELEMENT_NODE && el.tagName != 'TEXTAREA' && el.tagName != 'INPUT' && el.tagName != 'SCRIPT') {<br/>       $A(el.childNodes).each(function (onlyChild) {<br/>                var pos = onlyChild.textContent.indexOf(sword);<br/>                if (onlyChild.nodeType == Node.TEXT_NODE && pos >= 0) {<br/>                    console.log(onlyChild);<br/>                    var spannode = document.createElement('span');<br/>                   spannode.className = 'searchHighlight';<br/>                    var middlebit = onlyChild.splitText(pos);<br/>                    var endbit = middlebit.splitText(sword.length);<br/>                    var middleclone = middlebit.cloneNode(true);<br/>                   spannode.appendChild(middleclone);<br/>                   middlebit.parentNode.replaceChild(spannode, middlebit);<br/>              onlyChild. = el.innerHTML.replace(new RegExp('('+sword+')', 'gi'), '&lt;span class="highlight">$1&lt;/span>');<br/>               }<br/>        });<br/>      }<br/>    });<br/>  }<br/></pre><br/><h2>Step five: Trigger the feature</h2><br/>Now that every function that's needed is in place, we need to trigger it when we want to. Basically, it checks if the referrer is a search engine, and sends the correct query var to the parseReferrer function. You can add more search engines yourself, just remember to add the correct var!<br/><pre class="brush: javascript"><br/><br/> document.observe('dom:loaded', function() {<br/>    if(document.referrer != ''){<br/><br/>      if (document.referrer.indexOf('google.com') > -1){<br/>       searchQueryVar = 'q';<br/>        parseReferrer(searchQueryVar);      <br/>       locateSearchTerms();            <br/>     }     <br/>     else if (document.referrer.indexOf('yahoo.com') > -1){<br/>       searchQueryVar = 'p';<br/>        parseReferrer(searchQueryVar);      <br/>       locateSearchTerms();      <br/>     }<br/>    }<br/>  });<br/><br/></pre><br/><br/><em>Image used in this post is &copy; <a href="http://www.technobuzz.net/" rel="nofollow">TechnoBuzz.net</a></em>